Humidity add trigger (Labs feature) (#45116)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_triggers/humidity.crossed_threshold.markdown

This fires whenever the bedroom humidity sensor enters the comfort range (40% to 60%).

To fire when the reading leaves a comfort range (escapes above 60% or below 40%):

{% example %}
trigger: |
  trigger: humidity.crossed_threshold
  target:
    entity_id: sensor.bedroom_humidity
  options:
    threshold:
      type: outside
      value_min:
        number: 40
      value_max:
        number: 60
{% endexample %}

### Options in YAML

YAML sometimes provides additional options for more complex use cases that are not available through the UI.

{% options_yaml %}
threshold:
  description: |
    A mapping that defines the zone the reading must enter for the trigger to fire. Set `type` to one of:

    - `above` or `below`: provide `value` with a `number` key or an `entity` key.
    - `between` or `outside`: provide `value_min` and `value_max`, each with a `number` key or an `entity` key.
  required: true
  type: map
behavior:
  description: |
    When multiple entities are targeted, controls when the trigger fires. Accepts:

    - `any`(**Each** in the UI): fire every time any targeted entity crosses the threshold.
    - `first` (**First** in the UI): fire only on the first crossing.

>     - `last` (**All** in the UI): fire only after every targeted entity crosses the threshold.

Author: ```suggestion
    - `any`: fire every time any targeted entity crosses the threshold.
    - `first`: fire only on the first crossing.
    - `last`: fire only after every targeted entity crosses the threshold.
```

After a shower, bathroom humidity can climb fast. This automation turns on the bathroom fan the moment humidity crosses 70%.

- **Trigger**: Relative humidity crossed threshold
- **Target**: Bathroom humidity sensor
- **Threshold type**: Above 70%
- **Trigger when**: Each
- **Action**: Fan: Turn on

{% details "YAML example for bathroom humidity ventilation" %}

{% example %}
automation: |
  alias: "Ventilate bathroom on high humidity"
  triggers:
    - trigger: humidity.crossed_threshold
      target:
        entity_id: sensor.bathroom_humidity
      options:
        threshold:
          type: above
          value:
            number: 70
  actions:
    - action: fan.turn_on
      target:
        entity_id: fan.bathroom
{% endexample %}

{% enddetails %}

### Automation: alert when basement humidity goes out of range

Keep your basement at a healthy humidity level by sending a notification whenever the sensor crosses a level that may indicate a moisture problem.

- **Trigger**: Relative humidity crossed threshold
- **Target**: Basement humidity sensor
- **Threshold type**: Above 60%
- **Trigger when**: Each
- **For at least**: 00:10:00

> - **Action**: Send a mobile notification

Reviewer: Same here. The action is:
```suggestion
- **Action**: Notifications: Send a notification via mobile_app_phone
```

Author: Nice catch! Thx.

  description: |
    When multiple entities are targeted, controls when the trigger fires. Accepts:

    - `any`(**Each** in the UI): fire every time any targeted entity crosses the threshold.
    - `first` (**First** in the UI): fire only on the first crossing.

>     - `last` (**All** in the UI): fire only after every targeted entity crosses the threshold.

Reviewer: Is this required? We have the description already, and this section is dedicated to the options in YAML. 
If really required, should we add it everywhere then?

Author: well, I added it due to a review comment. As it is potentially confusing that they are not called the same in the UI and in YAML. Removed again.

Reviewer 2: It's more a technical thing that arises confusion here and that is that you need to use any in yaml which is each in the UI. Adding it like this wouldn't have satisfied my request, I think it should be brought back to core now it's still in Labs.

Author: oh, I see. Let me bring it up.

Author: It's scheduled to be renamed in the next release. Undefined what the definite naming will be then. I changed the wording to document the mismatch, as it reflects the current state.
